Load Runner Introduction

Load Runner is performances testing tool which is widely used for load, stress, volume and soak testing. Load runner supports maximum client server protocol for performance testing e.g HTTP/HTML, SAP, Citrix ect. Load runner is best tool for Web and SAP application.

Architecture of Load Runner:

Load runner is GUI based tool and very user friendly, basically it have five components:
1. Virtual User Generator (VuGen): VuGen is first component of load runner which is used for script creation, verification, modification. It allow user to record application flow which needs to test for load testing , it also allow user to put check points, data parameterization, think time, pacing which helps in record real user behavior on application and Reply it for load testing..

2. Controller: it is second component of LR which is used to generated x number of user load on application. controller is also used to monitor the web, App and database server during load testing, it allow user to add multiple graph such as Response time graph, Recourse monitor (used to monitor any window or Linux machine), throughput, hits par second etc.

3. Load Generator (LG): LG are used to generate load from specific location or geography, user can use multiple LG in controller.

4. Agent Process: This is window services which is running on Load Generator machine and helps in communication between controller and load generator.

5. Analysis: This component of LR is used to generate performances report. One’s user has completed execution in controller Analysis is used to generate performances report in various format e.g HTML, Excel, Word PDF or user define format. It also allow user to add or merger multiple graph and filtering the graph based on user criteria.

http://loadrunnertips.com/IMG/LR_ARc.gif

File Extensions in Load runner
VuGen: .USR is the file extension.
Controller : .lrs is the file extension
Result: .lrr result generated by Controller
Analysis : .lra is the file extension
 Architecture of Load Runner

Why Load Runner?
• Load runner is the tool which is dominating in Performances testing market alm
